---
layout: post
title: 'Idea: Doom Emacs Configuration Service'
date: '2021-12-20 12:02:14 -0500'
categories: [til]
comments: true
---
When you are tinkering with Emacs, would it be great to refer to others\'
configs automatically?

In a sense, we are doing manually: Go to other people\'s Github
repos and look at their configs (either in code or in a giant `.org`
file).

With Doom Emacs, we may streamline the process. Here\'s my reasoning:

Doom Emacs establishes a convention of configuration files:

-   Doom modules enabled in `init.el`
-   Other non-Doom packages: `package.el`
-   Customization stored and managed in `custom.el`
-   All private configs live in `config.el`

In a sense, it standardizes (and simplifies) the Emacs configurations.

__With all the famous people's configs, we can build a service to automatically
analyze other people's configs and answer questions like__:

-   Should I use this Doom package?
-   How do people configure it? What options do people use?
-   Is there any packages people use that matches the keyword `foo`?
-   What\'s the popularity of this config?
-   ...

We can build a program to pull the list of Doom config repos, and
perform simple file parsing to get the stats.

It would also help the community to improve the better defaults on Doom
Emacs. Say, if the majority of users add package X in Doom, it may
eventually get incorporated into Doom faster.

We can extend the idea to something greater: __Since Emacs can
act as a server and is inspectable, why don\'t we spin up an Emacs
cluster running all kinds of configs__.

The service can answer all kinds of config queries.

A usage scenario: People send in their 1) Emacs version, 2) Doom
version, 3) package name, and the service returns a list of
configurations for that package, together with popularity data, and
documentation that people can search and learn.

What do you think of this idea? 

Any comments are welcome!